---
layout: post
image: '/img/patente.jpg'
title: "The United States Patent
subtitle: "Method for optimal path selection in traversal of packets through network address translators"
---

### Method for optimal path selection in traversal of packets through network address translators

[PDF](https://github.com/Pyligent/patent/blob/master/US20050259637A1.pdf)

ABSTRACT:   

Reduction of administrative overhead in maintaining network information, rapid convergence on an optimal routing path through the data network, and utilization of only required network resources are realized by a novel method for establishing a call path between network users. The method is based upon deployment of a network information server that stores network topology information and that is addressable by each end user. In this method, the network information server receives a request to establish a call path. The request identifies at least the calling party. In response to the request, the network information server determines a network traversal between the calling party and a root network wherein the network traversal includes call path information about the sub-networks between the calling party and the root network. The request for establishing a call path can also identify the called party. Based on the calling and called party identification, the network information server also determines a second network traversal between the called party and the root network. The second network traversal is sent to either the calling party or the called party or to both the calling and called parties. The server can determine an intersection of the traversals and send the intersection information to the parties. The intersection information is known as a merge point and represents an optimal call path between the parties.

<hr>
##### Publication number: 20050259637
##### Patent Grant number: 7620033
##### Application Number: 10/850,977



